		ADRENALINE

1. Trekking on Everest, Nepal
	 Experience the pull of the Himalayas:  This route won't take you all the way to the top, but it does offer a stunning alternative route to Everest's Base Camp. You will be taken high into the Khumbu region, where you'll enjoy all the major highlights of the standard trail, before delving further into the mountains to uncover some of the region's bewitching landscape.Pass by the fantastical Gokyo lakes at the foot of the Ngozumpa Glacier, climb Gokyo Ri for incredible views of Everest and Makalu, and stand in awe beneath the Khumbu Icefall. You will also walk through a number of sherpa villages, and here you'll be able to experience the local people's friendliness first-hand, and gain a better understanding of their culture and way of life.This is a lodge trek, and does not involve any camping – so at least you know you'll have a cosy corner to warm your feet in the evening!

2. Mountain biking around Mt Toubkal, Morocco
	From the bustle of Marrakech, where this journey begins, the Atlas Range appears from the haze, an onslaught of orange. Villages – crafted into and camouflaged by the rocks – are softened by the light, and though the roads over the imposing peaks are ventured only by seasoned locals, they reward the onlooker with breathtaking views of the country below. There really is no comparison.This one-week circumnavigation of Mount Toubkal by mountain bike crosses challenging high mountain passes, with challenging road climbs and fast, technical single-track descents. The route covers 270km off-road, and offers the best of Moroccan fat-tyre biking with great diversity of tracks, scenery and interaction with the local people.All luggage – apart from the cycling essentials – is carried by the 4x4 vehicle support, so you can put your energy and focus into the bike and the stunning terrain around you. Covering around 55km a day, with a combined ascent of 7,500m, the trail is for confident and experiences riders only

3. Snowshoeing in Slovakia
	If you're looking for an adventure-filled trip for the whole family, it's time to turn your sights towards the Tatra Mountains. Snow-clad and brimming with winter activities, they are the perfect destination if you're looking to get away from it all and get your blood pumping at the same time. Think skiing, snowboarding, dog sledding, snowshoeing, and some thermal pools thrown in for good measure (you'll deserve it).With Family Adventure Company's Slovakian Snow Adventure, you'll be based in the small mountain village of Zuberec. Once an agricultural settlement, it is now situated at the centre of three downhill skiing areas, and hosts tourists throughout the winter and summer months. As well as the array of activities on offer, you will also get the opportunity to experience the traditions of the surrounding villages while sampling local food, drink, and dance.

4. Adventuring through Spain
	Get your fill of high-energy thrills in between the spectacular limestone peaks of Spain's first National Park, The Picos de Europa. On this Picos Mixed Activity Week with Exodus, you'll enjoy a variety of active trips in small groups of like-minded people. With a minimum age of 16, you'll be expected to have some level of fitness – but previous experience is not required, and different abilities are well catered for.With its deep gorges, large cave systems, lush valleys and lively rivers, there is no end to what the National Park has to offer. Canoe on the spectacular Sella River – the host of many renowned canoe competitions – and enjoy a fantastic day of canyoning through the Rubo Gorge. Cycle on the coastal paths of the old Camino de Santiago, trek the famous Cares Gorge, and avail of a host of other adventures that will most definitely tickle your fancy.


			ADVENTURE

1. Night Volcano Trekking – Indonesia
	Easily the most ridiculous thing I did whilst travelling, apart from perhaps the diving with Bull sharks and Tiger sharks in South Africa. But of course, with great fear comes great rewards! Volcano trekking is awesome and usually not something to be afraid of… If you find yourself in Yogyakarta (Java, Indonesia) and you want to head to Bali then don’t be boring and fly or get the bus, volcano trek your way there! You may or may not get the opportunity to spice things up a little and volcano trek at night… We’d already explored the magnitude of Mount Bromo and on only a couple of hours sleep our guide suggested we may want to trek up Mount Ijen at 1am in the pitch black and climb into the crater to witness the magical blue fire! Who could possibly say no to that?! It wasn’t so much of a trek as a hair-raising slippery two hour slide in complete darkness into a volcano’s crater, edging ever closer to the huge sulphur flames! I survived, people generally do survive. But if you’re a fan of health and safety you may want to give this one a swerve. You can climb to the top at sunrise and enjoy the magnificent volcano lake that appears as the day breaks!

2. Raft the Grand Canyon Arizona, USA
	 To see the great gorge from a completely different – and rare – angle. Looking down on the squiggle of the Colorado River from a mile up on the rocky rim, it seems impossible that this river could have carved the gargantuan Grand Canyon. Of course, it’s had about two billion years to do so, slowly slicing through the black-red-orange-purple strata to create one of the natural wonders of the world. And this is why seeing the canyon from water level is the best way to appreciate it – the experience offers a far more intimate encounter than peering in from the top, as well as a close up of all that glorious geology. The official launch point for a full run is Lees Ferry, at the north-east of Grand Canyon National Park; the end is at Lake Mead, 443km further on. En route are side canyons, Puebloan sites, swimming holes and sandy beaches, not to mention plenty of wild water. So, all good – it’s just getting authorisation to enter that’s the problem. There’s a ‘weighted lotteryʼ system, with a waiting list of several years, to secure a private rafting permit.Fortunately, commercial tour-op trips – which range from one-day to three-week floats – are available, but even these need booking in advance if you want to guarantee your rendezvous with all this ancient rock.

3. Trek to Machu Picchu, Peru
	 It’s more satisfying than the train, and there are lots of options. It’s virtually impossible to make a bucket list that doesn’t include Machu Picchu. A secret city, never found by those pesky conquistadores, perched in the mountains, swirled by mists and mysteries – it’s the stuff of travel legend.
The trouble is, when you’ve seen so many, many photos of the Inca citadel, there’s a danger it’ll be a bit of a let-down. And that’s one reason why, if you can, you should go on foot. The city deserves the slow build, the accumulated excitement, that trekking there provides. Also, deciding to lace up doesn’t mean you have to hit the Inca Trail. There are plenty of alternatives to the classic: you can hike via the much less-visited ruins of Choquequirao; head along the dramatic and diverse Salkantay Trail (with posh lodges en route); or tackle the tough Vilcabamba Traverse. 

4.Visit an endangered tribe in the Amazon, Ecuador
	To glimpse a unique culture, but to do it sensitively and responsibly. Understandably, many struggling minority tribes don’t want to be gawped at by tourists passing through – the arrow-firing Sentinelese of the Andaman Islands being a case in point. But for some such groups, tourism is providing a cultural lifeline, and travellers staying at lodges or booking tours owned and run by the tribes themselves are helping to keep endangered traditions alive (and protect their much-threatened environment from developers), while also giving visitors an authentic insight into how the peoples have existed for centuries: everybody wins. The indigenous peoples of Ecuador’s Oriente seem to have mastered this kind of community eco-tourism; there are several well-regarded options. For example, the Cofán – one of the oldest Amazonian tribes have been running community-based ecotourism in northern Ecuador since 1978. 

Trips here include canoeing and piranha fishing, sleeping in traditional thatched huts and trekking into the wildlife-dense rainforest with Cofán guides – with optional overnight camping trip for the adventurous minded. 

		LUXURY

1.COUNTRY ESCAPE: Heckfield Place
	The British countryside has long been saturated with aristocratic estates, more than a few of which have been transformed into prim and grandiose hotels. In the last year alone, in fact, more than a few old estates from Maidenhead to Leatherhead have gotten the multimillion-dollar treatment. But none were as meticulously executed (nor as postponed) as Heckfield Place.After six years of delays, the reimagined 18th- century Georgian manor in Hampshire finally made its debut last September—and it has proven itself worth the wait. Owner Gerald Chen, a dedicated if meticulous businessman, searched high and low for the right project designer, finally settling on Ben Thompson, a relative unknown at the time. But the young creative has risen to the challenge, bringing a striking new look to the old manse with a mishmash of antiques, artisan-made furnishings and British contemporary paintings from Chan’s own art collection. The 400-plus-acre grounds, including a 19th-century arboretum, have been given an overhaul as well, and a biodynamic farm and garden supply ingredients that populate everything from the restaurant menu—which was developed by culinary director Skye Gyngell of London’s acclaimed Spring—to the spa menu. Then there’s the service: The staff can take care of every whim and wish, from a private screening in the theater to a tasting in the 280-bin wine cellar. It’s enough to make you feel like a guest in a noble home, rather than just another country hotel. 

2.The Royal Suite at the Burj al Arab in Dubai
	Perched on the 25th floor of the Burj Al Arab in Dubai, the Royal Suite is a sight for sore eyes.The Burj is famous for its striking sail-shape design, and the lavish suite, which is one of the most expensive hotel rooms in the world. Each one occupies half of the 25th floor and was designed for royals, dignitaries, and other esteemed visitors. Upon entering, guests will find themselves in an entry hall decked out in marble and gold, with a grand staircase leading to the suite’s upper level. (There’s also an elevator connecting the two levels, so no need to worry about lugging your suitcase up the stairs.)The 8,396-square-foot suite comprises the master bedroom, complete with a rotating canopy bed; a huge dressing room; a dining room that can accommodate 12 a Majlis-style sitting room for entertaining guests; a private cinema; and a study equipped with the latest tech gadgets. Guests receive a custom-made 24K-gold iPad that serves as a virtual concierge, though of course, a butler is just a call away—there are 27 phones throughout the suite for easy access. If that weren’t enough, there’s a pillow menu with 17 options, a special bath menu for use in the round marble tub, and Hermès bath products. Needless to say, guests enjoy the most attentive service imaginable.

3. Sleep under the stars in NamibRand, Namibia
	To experience some of the world’s best celestial sights. Sure, leave the big city and you can see stars almost anywhere. But the experience will be extra heavenly if you travel somewhere very dark, very clear and very remote. Namibia’s vast NamibRand Nature Reserve is one of only a few gold-certified Dark Sky Reserves. Simply, it has some of the world’s best dark skies. There are no towns or settlements inside it, or even nearby – Namibia is one of the planet’s most sparsely populated countries. And the dry climate means cloudless skies are the norm.By day, explore NamibRand’s ochre-hued wilderness of dunes, mountains and plains, looking for oryx and Hartmann’s zebra. Then, after a blazing sunset, it’s time to turn your eyes skyward. It may seem difficult to get to the desert, but the reserve is around 375km from Windhoek. So, you can always start from the capital, and find your way to the reserve. 
Start your adventure: Splurge on a stay at Sossusvlei Desert Lodge, which has its own observatory and ten luxurious chalets, each with a terrace, telescope and skylight over the bed.Or join the Tok Tokkie Trails three-day desert walk, on which nights are spent sleeping on a canvas stretcher under the stars. 

4. Swim with turtles in Ningaloo, Western Australia
	To take a dip with endangered species. Western Oz’s Ningaloo Reef isn’t as big as the Great Barrier, on the opposite coast.But it’s still attracts around 500 species of fish; best of all, in parts it lays only 100m offshore, making its underwater riches extremely accessible – the snorkelling is superb, too. Three of the world’s seven species of marine turtles nest on beaches and islands near Ningaloo between November and April: green (listed as endangered), hawksbill (critically endangered) and loggerhead (vulnerable). However, turtles swim offshore year-round, their lumpen on-land movements transformed into a graceful ballet once they’re in the water. Good spots include Shark Bay, the Muiron Islands and Turtle Bay on Dirk Hartog Island. 

 		MYSTERY

1. The Bermuda Triangle, Atlantic Ocean
	Tales of lost mariners and disappeared ships, crashed aircraft and even vanishing humans, have been emerging from the waters of the Bermuda Triangle for centuries.The vast area of more than half a million square miles is also known as the Devil’s Triangle, and theories as to why so many travelers fall foul of its clutches abound.Some say there are magnetic anomalies that throw compasses off course, others that tropical cyclones are to blame, and some say there’s simply no mystery at all! Today, visiting the area can be much more pleasant than you might think, with the sun-splashed islands of Turks and Caicos beckoning in the south and the coves of Bermuda in the north.

2. The Banff Springs Hotel, Canada
	With overtures of the Timberline Lodge of Stephen King and Stanley Kubrick’s The Shining fame, the Banff Springs Hotel of Canada is said to be the home of a plethora of ghost stories and mysterious happenings.Locals tell tales of an entire family that was murdered in cold-blood in room 873. Others talk of reappearing doormen who vanish into thin air.But if you think you can deal with the supernatural rep, then you’re in for a real treat here.The handsome hotel oozes Scottish Baronial styles, is shrouded by the fir-dressed peaks of the Canadian Rockies, and offers access to the iconic ski fields of Jasper and Banff.

3.Transylvania, Romania
	Sylvan hills and mist-topped mountains, the clanging echo of church bells and the stone-built medieval steeples of towns like Sibiu, Brasov and Cluj, all add to the eerie atmosphere of this vast region at the very heart of Romania.But it’s one place that really brings the chills and gets the spine a-tingling: Bran Castle.This turret-topped citadel soars from the forests on the edge of Wallachia in a medley of Gothic towers and gargoyle-peppered roofs.Over the years it’s been associated with a number of less-than-savoury, uber-mysterious figures: Vlad the Impaler, the most bloodthirsty of the Wallachian kings, and – of course – Count Dracula, the archetype of the nail-biting Nosferatu

4.Bhangarh Fort, India
	Enfolded by the rises of the Aravali Hills and baked by the Rajasthani sun, the old bulwarks of the Bhangarh Fort are said to echo with the ethereal presence of one cursed princess and her would-be captor, the wizard Sinhai.It’s said that Sinhai tried to ensnare the young royal by offering her a love potion.The plan backfired, the wizard ended up dead, but not before he could lay his hex on all the inhabitants of Bhangarh.Today, the Mughlai complex once trodden by Madho Singh I is considered one of the most haunted spots in India.No one is allowed to enter after dark, and locals have even reported deaths as a result of the continued curse!
	